{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Idioms\par
\par
\ulnone\par
What are idioms in English?\par
\par
Idioms are common phrases or expressions in a language that has a figurative meaning rather than a literal one. In other words, the meaning of an idiom cannot be deduced by looking at the individual words in the phrase.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Idiom\tab & Idioms Meaning\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Beat around the bush\tab To avoid talking about what\rquote s important\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}Get your act together\tab Get organized and do things effectively\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}Hit the sack\tab Go to sleep\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}Your guess is as good as mine\tab I do not know\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}Good things come to those who wait\tab To have patience\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}Back against the wall\tab Stuck in a difficult circumstance with no escape\par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}Up in arms\tab Being grumpy or angry about something\par
{\pntext\f0 8.\tab}Scrape the barrel\tab Making the most of the worst situations or things because you can\rquote t do anything about it\par
{\pntext\f0 9.\tab}Burn your boats/bridges\tab Doing something that makes it impossible to go back to the original state.\par
{\pntext\f0 10.\tab}Break fresh/ new ground\tab Doing something that has never been done before\par
{\pntext\f0 11.\tab}Sell like hot cakes\tab Quick sellout\par
{\pntext\f0 12.\tab}Run around in circles\tab Putting efforts into something that is not a worthwhile result\par
{\pntext\f0 13.\tab}On cloud nine\tab Being very happy\par
{\pntext\f0 14.\tab}Left out in the cold\tab Being ignored\par
{\pntext\f0 15.\tab}Blow hot and cold\tab Alternate inconsistently between moods and actions\par
{\pntext\f0 16.\tab}Cut corners\tab Doing something in an easier and least expensive manner\par
{\pntext\f0 17.\tab}Boil the ocean\tab Taking up an almost impossible or overly ambitious project\par
{\pntext\f0 18.\tab}Keep an ear to the ground\tab Staying informed and updated about everything\par
{\pntext\f0 19.\tab}Eat like a horse\tab Eating too excessively\par
{\pntext\f0 20.\tab}A snowball effect\tab The aspect of momentum in every event and how they build upon each other\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\par
\par
\par
21. In for a penny, in for a pound\par
Meaning: That someone is intentionally investing his time or money for a particular project or task.\par
Example: When Athlead was booming, Jim was in for a penny and in for a pound, that\rquote s how much dedicated he was. \par
\par
22. A bird in the hand is better than two in the bush\par
\par
Meaning: An opportunity in hand, currently, is better than a prospect in the future, because time never repeats itself.\par
Example: The detective apprehended 3 criminals and saw another one running but didn\rquote t chase him, because she knew a bird in one hand is better than two in the bush.\par
\par
23. Chip off the old block\par
Meaning: A person is similar in behaviour or actions to his parents.\par
Example: When grandmother saw her grandson collecting coins like her son used to do, she knew he was a Chip off the old block.\par
\par
24. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you\par
\par
Meaning: Treat people the same way you want to be treated.\par
Example: I felt Peter was a little cold today towards that homeless man, he should do unto others as he would have them do unto him, because who knows about time.\par
\par
25. Don\rquote t cry over spilt milk\par
Meaning: Don\rquote t cry over what has happened as it can not be fixed.\par
Example: Walter failed his examination but his dad came and said just one thing, \ldblquote Son, Don\rquote t cry over spilt milk.\rdblquote\par
\par
26. Every cloud has a silver lining\par
Meaning: Bad things one day eventually lead to good things.\par
Example: See, yesterday you were so morose as your phone was stolen but look at you today, you got a promotion. Is it rightly said that every cloud has a silver lining.\par
\par
27. Beside yourself with joy\par
Meaning: To be extremely happy.\par
Example: I can see that you are beside yourself with joy on being selected for the job, congratulations. \par
\par
28. Fair and square\par
Meaning: Being direct or fair.\par
Example: To tell you fair and square, I did everything that I was meant to do, but I still feel unfulfilled. \par
\par
29. Having an Ace up the sleeve\par
Meaning: Have an advantage that is currently being withheld for future purposes. \par
Example: Brian kept quiet at the board meeting, who knew he had an Ace hidden up his sleeve the whole time.\par
\par
30. A black sheep\par
Meaning: Being a disgrace for the family.\par
Example: They don\rquote t talk about Olive anymore, turns out he was the Black sheep for the family, he married someone else while he was still arranged to his fianc\'e9. \par
\par
31. Hook, line and sinker\par
Meaning: Doing something or trying to achieve something with thoroughness and passion.\par
Example: I have set my mind to go through the spreadsheets by Monday and I am working for it Hook, line and sinker.\par
\par
32. Looking to your laurels\par
Meaning: Not be lost in your achievements and losing the sight of what is supposed to happen.\par
Example: Look to your laurels but do not rest on it. \par
\par
33. Bear a grudge\par
Meaning: To continue to feel angry or unfriendly for someone or something because of a particular past incident.\par
Example: I Bear a grudge against him for not taking me into confidence.\par
\par
34. By the skin of your teeth\par
Meaning: To just barely get by or make it.\par
Example: Lester made the dance team By the skin of his teeth, you see the audition gates were about to get closed.\par
\par
Ever thought what it takes to be a fluent speaker? You might have been lured into paying a hearty amount of money to build fluency in the English language. Here\rquote s how to speak fluent English in 30 days.\par
\par
35. Down for the count\par
Meaning: Tired; giving up.\par
Example: My pet dog is down for the count after playing the whole day with the frisbee.\par
\par
36. Draw the line\par
Meaning: To stop before a point where something okay gets not okay.\par
Example: Hey buddy, that\rquote s enough, Draw the line before someone comes and beats you to a pulp.\par
\par
37. Easier said than done\par
Meaning: Not as easy as it appears to be.\par
Example: Listen, losing weight is easier said than done, many people lack commitment. \par
\par
38. Break a leg\par
Meaning: Saying good luck to someone.\par
Example: Hey Barry, it\rquote s time for you to get on the stage and present your monologue, break a leg.\par
\par
39. Up a creek without a paddle\par
Meaning: In an unlucky situation.\par
Example: Dan tried to dine and dash yesterday at a Chinese place but he was stopped by the waiters, guess he was up a creek without a paddle yesterday.\par
\par
40. Give it a whirl\par
Meaning: To give something a try.\par
Example: I am absolutely terrified of skydiving, but I think once in my life, I will give it a whirl.\par
\par
41. Fish out of water\par
Meaning: To be out of your comfort zone.\par
Example: Tom felt like a fish out of water when his girlfriend took him to a Star Wars convention in LA.\par
\par
42. In the fast lane\par
Meaning: A life filled with excitement.\par
Example: When Chris turned forty, he decided to live his life in the fast lane and quit his job for his hobbies.\par
\par
43. Go the extra mile\par
Meaning: To make an extra effort.\par
Example: He was willing to go the extra mile for the love of his life, Mia.\par
\par
44. Snug as a bug in a rug\par
Meaning: Warm and cosy.\par
Meaning: The baby looks as snug as a bug in a rug next to her mother.\par
\par
45. Step up your game\par
Meaning: To start performing better\par
Example: Jennifer better step up her game if she wants to make big in Basketball.\par
\par
Idioms are used as a figurative language, i.e. the use of words in an imaginative and unusual manner. Take a look at more idioms with examples.\par
\par
46. To not see the wood for the trees\par
Meaning: To be so involved in trivial matters that you don\rquote t get the important facts.\par
Example: He always argues on the silliest topics, it\rquote s like he can\rquote t see wood for the trees.\par
\par
47. Lose your marbles\par
Meaning: To go insane.\par
Example: Our mailman has lost his marbles, every day he drops Mr. Smith\rquote s mail on our door. \par
\par
48. Straight from the Horse\rquote s mouth\par
Meaning: Directly from the person involved.\par
Example: Listen to the news straight from the horse\rquote s mouth, his factory burned down right in front of his eyes. \par
\par
49. Crying Wolf\par
Meaning: To ask for help when you don\rquote t need it.\par
Example: You have cried Wolf so many times that no one believes you now.\par
\par
50. Palm off\par
Meaning: Pass off something as genuine when it is spurious.\par
Example: This shopkeeper always palms off old stock to the customers.\par
\par
51. Has bigger fish to fry\par
Meaning: Has more important work to do.\par
Example: Please don\rquote t bother me today with any calls, I have bigger fish to fry.\par
\par
52. Look before you leap\par
Meaning: Calculate the risks before advancing towards a possibility.\par
Example: You can\rquote t just sell all of your shares when the market is low, look before you leap, Trump is coming tomorrow, it is possible the shares will grow.\par
\par
53. On thin ice\par
Meaning: In a precarious or risky situation.\par
Example: Andy played hooky from work for a week saying he was sick, now his boss said that he is on very thin ice.\par
\par
54. Play devil\rquote s advocate\par
Meaning: To argue, just for the sake of it.\par
Example: He was not agreeing to back off, as if he was playing devil\rquote s advocate.\par
\par
Besides, knowing about various idioms with examples, a good vocabulary can take you to places in competitive exams as well as in life. Here\rquote s our blog on 50 difficult words with meanings for you to master your speaking skills now!\par
\par
55. Rain on someone\rquote s parade\par
Meaning: To spoil a moment.\par
Example: He told his wife that he doesn\rquote t want to rain on her parade, but they had to shift their vacation dates.\par
\par
56. Take a rain check\par
Meaning: Postpone a plan.\par
Example: He asked me whether I would like to have dinner with his family, but I had a thing so I said, rain check.\par
\par
57. Take it with a grain of salt\par
Meaning: Don\rquote t take it too seriously.\par
Example: She tells great tales but we take whatever she says with a grain of salt. \par
\par
58. Like a cakewalk\par
Meaning: So easy task.\par
Example: Everyone took hours to write the code but Adam did it like a cakewalk.\par
\par
59. Throw caution to the wind\par
Meaning: Take a risk.\par
Example: The caretaker threw caution to the wind by taking a sick baby outside. \par
\par
60. Penny-wise and Pound foolish\par
Meaning: Careful in trivial matters but wasteful or extravagant in large matters.\par
Example: That man eats Ramen noodles daily for dinner but for his dog, he threw a big party. He is indeed penny-wise and pound-foolish.\par
\par
61. The whole nine yards\par
Meaning: Everything, all the way.\par
Example: I want to know everything there is to know about this merger, the whole nine yards of the deal.\par
\par
62. The best thing since sliced bread\par
Meaning: A really good invention.\par
Example: Bluetooth is officially the best thing since sliced bread. \par
}
 